Develop > Interoperability > XCM Config (#177)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/interoperability/xcm-config.md

---
title: XCM Config
description: Learn how the XCM Executor configuration works for your custom Polkadot SDK-based runtime with detailed guidance and references.
---

# XCM Config

## Introduction

> The [XCM executor](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-executor/src){target=\_blank} is a crucial component responsible for interpreting and executing XCM messages with Polkadot SDK-based chains. It processes and manages XCM instructions, ensuring they are executed correctly and in sequentially. Adhering to the Cross-Consensus Virtual Machine (XCVM) specification, the XCM executor can be customized or replaced with an alternative that also complies with the [XCVM standards](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/xcm-format?tab=readme-ov-file#12-the-xcvm){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: Where are we with "XCM messages"? We usually call them just XCMs, for Cross-Consensus Messages, instead of Cross-Consensus Messaging messages. Is this something we've talked about before in the docs?

Author: I like XCMs, but I think we need to clarify it somewhere. So, probably since this is the first appearance of it, we can do something like "XCM messages (XCMs)," and then directly use XCMs

> The [XCM executor](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-executor/src){target=\_blank} is a crucial component responsible for interpreting and executing XCM messages with Polkadot SDK-based chains. It processes and manages XCM instructions, ensuring they are executed correctly and in sequentially. Adhering to the Cross-Consensus Virtual Machine (XCVM) specification, the XCM executor can be customized or replaced with an alternative that also complies with the [XCVM standards](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/xcm-format?tab=readme-ov-file#12-the-xcvm){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [XCM executor](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-executor/src){target=\_blank} is a crucial component responsible for interpreting and executing XCM messages with Polkadot SDK-based chains. It processes and manages XCM instructions, ensuring the intents they represent are correctly executed. Adhering to the Cross-Consensus Virtual Machine (XCVM) specification, the XCM executor can be customized or replaced with an alternative that also complies with the [XCVM standards](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/xcm-format?tab=readme-ov-file#12-the-xcvm){target=\_blank}.
```

> The [XCM executor](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-executor/src){target=\_blank} is a crucial component responsible for interpreting and executing XCM messages with Polkadot SDK-based chains. It processes and manages XCM instructions, ensuring they are executed correctly and in sequentially. Adhering to the Cross-Consensus Virtual Machine (XCVM) specification, the XCM executor can be customized or replaced with an alternative that also complies with the [XCVM standards](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/xcm-format?tab=readme-ov-file#12-the-xcvm){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: I'd put the link in "Cross-Consensus Virtual Machine (XCVM) specification". What do you think?

> The [XCM executor](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-executor/src){target=\_blank} is a crucial component responsible for interpreting and executing XCM messages with Polkadot SDK-based chains. It processes and manages XCM instructions, ensuring they are executed correctly and in sequentially. Adhering to the Cross-Consensus Virtual Machine (XCVM) specification, the XCM executor can be customized or replaced with an alternative that also complies with the [XCVM standards](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/xcm-format?tab=readme-ov-file#12-the-xcvm){target=\_blank}.

Author: Yeah, totally. Actually, we do prefer a link to the Rust docs instead of GitHub repos. My bad on this one. Ty!

> The `XcmExecutor` is not a pallet but a struct parameterized by a `Config` trait. The `Config` trait is the inner configuration, parameterizing the outer `XcmExecutor<Config>` struct. Both configurations are set up within the runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `XcmExecutor` is not a FRAME pallet but a regular Rust struct parameterized by a `Config` trait.
This `Config` trait gives it access to functionality from FRAME, such as access to pallet storage.
```

On the second phrase you repeat the

> The executor is highly configurable, with the [XCM builder](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-builder/src){target=\_blank} offering building blocks to tailor the configuration to specific needs. While they serve as a foundation, users can easily create custom blocks to suit unique configurations. Users can also create their building blocks to address unique needs. This article examines the XCM configuration process, explains each configurable item, and provides examples of the tools and types available to help customize these settings.

Reviewer: Again, maybe the [rust docs](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_builder/index.html) are better here

## XCM Executor Configuration

The `Config` trait defines the XCM executor’s configuration, which requires several associated types. Each type has specific trait bounds that the concrete implementation must fulfill. Some types, such as `RuntimeCall`, come with a default implementation in most cases, while others use the unit type `()` as the default. For many of these types, selecting the appropriate implementation carefully is crucial. Predefined solutions and building blocks can be adapted to your specific needs. These solutions can be found in the [`xcm-builder`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/polkadot/xcm/xcm-builder){target=\_blank} folder.

Each type is explained below, along with an overview of some of its implementations:

```rust
--8<-- 'code/develop/interoperability/xcm-config/xcm-config-trait.rs'
```

> ## Config Items

Reviewer 2: There are some terms like `Multilocation`, `RuntimeOrigin` and so on that are not linked to an explanation. We might need a exclusive glossary for XCM or add these terms to the existing one.

Reviewer: Agreed, also, we should use just `Location` going forward, remove the `Multi` prefix altogether

Author: agree, moving this item to post-launch, thanks!

Each configuration item is explained below, detailing the associated type’s purpose and role in the XCM executor. Many of these types have predefined solutions available in the `xcm-builder`. Therefore, the available configuration items are:

- [**`RuntimeCall`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.RuntimeCall){target=\_blank} - defines the runtime's callable functions, created via the [`frame::runtime`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/frame_support/attr.runtime.html){target=\_blank} macro. It represents an enum listing the callable functions of all implemented pallets
    ```rust

>     type RuntimeCall: Parameter + Dispatchable<PostInfo = PostDispatchInfo> + GetDispatchInfo

Reviewer: We could maybe demystify this a bit explaining the trait bounds in a very short sentence.

- `Parameter` means (broadly) it can be encoded and decoded. That it can be used as a parameter.
- `Dispatchable` means it's something that can be dispatched. It can be executed in the runtime.
- `GetDispatchInfo` basically means it has some weight attached. How long it takes for it to run.

Author: This is great! Added! thank you!

    ```

> - [**`XcmSender`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.RuntimeCall){target=\_blank} - implements the [`SendXcm`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm/v4/trait.SendXcm.html){target=\_blank} trait, specifying how the executor sends XCMs using transport layers (e.g., UMP for relay chains or XCMP for sibling chains). If a runtime lacks certain transport layers, such as [`XcmpQueue`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_xcmp_queue/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.XcmpQueue){target=\_blank}, it restricts message destinations

Reviewer: You're linking to `RuntimeCall` here instead of to `XcmSender`

> - [**`XcmSender`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.RuntimeCall){target=\_blank} - implements the [`SendXcm`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm/v4/trait.SendXcm.html){target=\_blank} trait, specifying how the executor sends XCMs using transport layers (e.g., UMP for relay chains or XCMP for sibling chains). If a runtime lacks certain transport layers, such as [`XcmpQueue`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_xcmp_queue/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.XcmpQueue){target=\_blank}, it restricts message destinations

Reviewer: We're using the `XCMs` terminology here which I prefer. We could change it all over the place

Author: Done!

> - [**`XcmSender`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.RuntimeCall){target=\_blank} - implements the [`SendXcm`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm/v4/trait.SendXcm.html){target=\_blank} trait, specifying how the executor sends XCMs using transport layers (e.g., UMP for relay chains or XCMP for sibling chains). If a runtime lacks certain transport layers, such as [`XcmpQueue`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_xcmp_queue/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.XcmpQueue){target=\_blank}, it restricts message destinations

Reviewer: `XcmpQueue` is not a transport layer, more like an implementation detail. I'd say the transport layer is HRMP (or XCMP)

Author: ty! fixed!

    ```rust
    type XcmSender: SendXcm;
    ```

> - [**`AssetTransactor`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.AssetTransactor){target=\_blank} - implements the [`TransactAsset`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/traits/trait.TransactAsset.html){target=\_blank} trait, handling the conversion and transfer of MultiAssets between accounts or registers. It can be configured to support native tokens, fungibles, and non-fungibles using pre-defined adapters like [`FungibleAdapter`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_builder/struct.FungibleAdapter.html){target=\_blank} or custom solutions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**`AssetTransactor`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.AssetTransactor){target=\_blank} - implements the [`TransactAsset`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/traits/trait.TransactAsset.html){target=\_blank} trait, handling the conversion and transfer of Assets between accounts or registers. It can be configured to support native tokens, fungibles, and non-fungibles using predefined adapters like the [`FungibleAdapter`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_builder/struct.FungibleAdapter.html){target=\_blank} or custom solutions.
```

Reviewer: We can also mention `FungiblesAdapter` for multiple tokens

    ```rust
    type AssetTransactor: TransactAsset;
    ```

> - [**`OriginConverter`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.OriginConverter){target=\_blank} - implements the [`ConvertOrigin`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_executor/traits/trait.ConvertOrigin.html){target=\_blank} trait to map `MultiLocation` origins to `RuntimeOrigin`. Multiple implementations can be combined, and [`OriginKind`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_builder/test_utils/enum.OriginKind.html){target=\_blank} is used to resolve conflicts. Pre-defined converters like [`SovereignSignedViaLocation`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_builder/struct.SovereignSignedViaLocation.html){target=\_blank} and [`SignedAccountId32AsNative`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/staging_xcm_builder/struct.SignedAccountId32AsNative.html){target=\_blank} handle sovereign and local accounts respectively

Reviewer: I'm going through this and it feels really bland. It's just listing all the config items which might even change in the future. This is not future-proof. I'd rather document each of these in the rust docs and then link them here.

In this docs, I would show how to use these. Anything that's not the rust docs should be higher level. Start from a scenario or from an example and then link whenever you need to the rust docs for reference.

Author: Yeah, I agree; maybe we can add those pages to the tutorials section. I was thinking of this page as an overview of the config types, so we can link from here to the different tutorials we will build down the road
